.\" Process this file with 
.\"    groff -man -Tascii infomap-install.control.5

.TH INSTALL.CONTROL 5 "February 2004" "Infomap Project" "Infomap NLP Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
@pkgdatadir@/install.control \- Infomap model installation control files

.SH DESCRIPTION
install.control files are used to control the behavior of
.BR infomap-install (1)
when it installs an Infomap NLP model.  An install.control file lists
zero or more files; for each of the files listed, it specifies:  (1)
whether that file should be installed if it is present in the working
model directory; (2) whether a warning should be issued if that file
is missing from the working model directory.

The format of an install.control file is simple.  Each line of the
file contains a filename, a colon, and a single letter indicating how
that file is to be treated.  "Y" means to install the file if it is
present, and to give a warning if it is missing.  "y" means to install
the file if present, but not to warn if it is missing.  "N" means to
ignore the file (i.e. do not install, do not warn if missing).  Any
other letter will result in a warning being issued by 
.BR infomap-install (1).

Files will be ignored if they are not mentioned at all in the
install.control file; the "N" control letter is provided anyway
so that filenames can be left in install.control files as placeholders.

Blank lines and lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

.SH EXAMPLES
Below are partial contents of an example install.control file

.PD 0
# This line is a comment 
.LP

.LP
# Install file foo.bar, warn if missing
.LP
foo.bar:Y
.LP

.LP
# Install file bam.baz, ignore if missing
.LP
bam.baz:y
.LP

.LP
# Ignore file yogibear
.LP
yogibear:N
.LP

.LP
# The following lines are illegal
.LP
# and will generate warnings
.LP
jimbob:n
.LP
jerryjoe:Noinst

.PD


.SH FILES
.I @pkgdatadir@/install.control
.RS
A default install.control file with generally sensible settings.
This file causes those parts of the model necessary for use by
search-side Infomap programs (like
.BR associate (1))
to be installed, but not other files.  It causes warnings when
files essential to
.BR associate (1) 
and other search-side programs are missing, but not when other 
files are missing.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR infomap-install (1), \ infomap-build (1).

.SH BUGS
.BR infomap-install (1)
not very robust to malformed install.control files.
Please report bugs to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .

.SH CREDITS
The 
.I install.control
file format was designed by Scott Cederberg.
The Infomap NLP software was written by Stefan Kaufmann, Hinrich
Schuetze, Dominic Widdows, Beate Dorow, and Scott Cederberg.  The
Infomap algorithm was originally developed by Hinrich Schuetze.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Scott Cederberg.  Please direct
inquiries and bug reports to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .
