.\" Process this file with 
.\"    groff -man -Tascii encode_wordvec.1

.TH ENCODE_WORDVEC 1 "February 2004" "Infomap Project" "Infomap NLP Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
encode_wordvec \- compress word vectors from textual to binary format

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B encode_wordvec
.BR -m <model_data_dir>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B encode_wordvec
reads in the word vectors written to the 
.I left
file by
.BR svdinterface .
It converts this textual input to a binary format that is more
efficient for lookup.  It generates associated DBM files that index
the binary-format word vectors.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -m \ <model_data_dir>
The directory from which input is read and to which output is written.

.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.SH INPUT FILES
These files are read from the model data directory, specified as
an argument to the
.B -mdir
option.

.I left
.RS
The word vectors (left singular vectors from SVD) in a textual
format.  See
.BR svdinterface (1).
.RE

.I dic
.RS
The dictionary file listing the different terms (word types) found
in the corpus, and the term and document frequency for each.
See
.BR prepare_corpus (1).
.RE

.I model_params.bin
.RS
Reads this file to obtain parameters for the model being built.
See 
.BR prepare_corpus (1).
.RE


.SH OUTPUT FILES
These files are written to the model data directory, specified as
an argument to the
.B -mdir
option.

.I wordvec.bin
.RS
The binary wordvectors.  
These are really the meat of the model.
Please note that this file is
.I not
portable to other machine architectures.
.RE

.I word2offset.{dir,pag}
.RS
These files make up a DBM database.  Each key in this database is
a word; the corresponding value is the offset into 
.I wordvec.bin
at which that word's vector begins.  Thus this database and 
.I wordvec.bin
can be used to obtain a word's vector given the word.
.RE

.I offset2word.{dir,pag}
.RS
These files make up a DBM database.  Each key in this database
is an offset into the 
.I wordvec.bin
file at which a word vector begins; the corresponding value is
the word whose vector begins at that offset.
Thus this database and 
.I wordvec.bin
can be used to obtain a word given its vector.
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prepare_corpus (1), \ count_wordvec (1), \ svdinterface (1), \
\ count_artvec (1), \ write_text_params(1).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns 0 to indicate success, 1 to indicate error.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .

.SH CREDITS
The Infomap NLP software was written by Stefan Kaufmann, Hinrich
Schuetze, Dominic Widdows, Beate Dorow, and Scott Cederberg.  The
Infomap algorithm was originally developed by Hinrich Schuetze.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Scott Cederberg.  Please direct
inquiries and bug reports to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .
