.\" Process this file with 
.\"    groff -man -Tascii infomap-install.1

.TH INFOMAP-INSTALL 1 "February 2004" "Infomap Project" "Infomap NLP Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
infomap-install \- install an Infomap WordSpace model

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infomap-install
.RB [ -c \ install_control_file]
.RB [ -w \ working_dir] 
.RB [ -i \ install_dir]
<working_model_tag> [installed_model_tag]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infomap-install
installs an Infomap WordSpace model.  It does this by copying
some or all of the model files (generally created by 
.BR infomap-build (1))
from the
.I working model directory
to the
.IR "installed model directory" .

The name of the working model directory is the working model tag, which
is a required argument.  The name of the installed model directory is
the installed model tag if it is given, otherwise it is the working
model tag.

The working model directory may be in one of three places:  the
directory given as an argument to the
.B -w 
option, if specified; otherwise, the directory named by the
.B INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
environment variable; otherwise, the current directory.

The installed model directory likewise may be created as a subdirectory
of one of three different directories:  the directory given as
an argument to the
.B -i
option, if specified; otherwise, the directory named by the
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_DIR
environment variable; otherwise, 
.IR @pkgdatadir@/models .

Note that installing to 
.I @pkgdatadir@/models 
will probably require root access.

Which files are copied as part of the installation is determined by
an 
.IR "install control file" .
The default install control file is
.IR @pkgdatadir@/install.control ;
an alternate file can be specified as an argument to the
.B -c
option.  See
.BR infomap-install.control (5)
for documentation of the format of install control files.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -c \ install_control_file
The install control file determines which files will be copied
from the working data directory to the installed data directory
during installation.  It can also cause 
.B infomap-install
to print warning messages if certain files are missing from
the working data directory.  If no
.B -c
option is given, the default install control file is
.IR @pkgdatadir@/install.control .
See 
.BR infomap-install.control (5)
for details on the format of install control files.

.TP
.BI -i \ install_dir
The directory in which the installed data directory will be created.
If 
.B -i
is not specified, the value of the 
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_DIR
environment variable is used; if neither
.BR -i \ nor \ INFOMAP_MODEL_DIR
is specified, then
.I @pkgdatadir@/models
is used by default.

.TP
.BI -w \ working_dir
The directory in which the working data directory must be located.  If
.B -w 
is not specified, the value of the
.B INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
environment variable is used; if neither
.BR -w \ nor \ INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
is specified, then the current directory is used by default.

.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.SH FILES
.I @pkgdatadir@/install.control
.RS
Default install control file.  Alternate
can be specified with 
.B -c
option.  See
.BR infomap-install.control (5).
.RE

.I @pkgdatadir@/models
.RS
Default directory in which to created installed data
directory.  Alternate can be specified with 
.B -i
option, or using the
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_DIR
environment variable.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
.RS
Directory in which to seek working data directory.
Can be overridden by the
.B -w 
option.  Default is the current directory.
.RE

.B INFOMAP_MODEL_DIR
.RS
Directory in which to create the installed data directory.
Can be overridden by the
.B -i
option.  Default is
.IR @pkgdatadir@/models .
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR infomap-install.control (5), \ infomap-build (1), \ associate (1).


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns 0 to indicate success; 1 or nonzero return value from child
process to indicate error.

.SH BUGS
Not yet as robust as one might hope, especially with
respect to malformed install.control files.
Please report bugs to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .


.SH CREDITS
The 
.B infomap-install
script was written by Scott Cederberg. 
The Infomap NLP software was written by Stefan Kaufmann, Hinrich
Schuetze, Dominic Widdows, Beate Dorow, and Scott Cederberg.  The
Infomap algorithm was originally developed by Hinrich Schuetze.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Scott Cederberg.  Please direct
inquiries and bug reports to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .
