.\" Process this file with 
.\"    groff -man -Tascii print_doc.1.

.TH PRINT_DOC 1 "February 2004" "Infomap Project" "Infomap NLP Manual"

.SH NAME
.TP 
print_doc \- print a corpus document given its ID

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B print_doc
(
.RB [ -t ]
| 
.RB [ -m 
.IR model_dir ]
)
.BI -c \ model_tag
.RI < doc_id_1 > 
.RI " [" doc_id_2 " ... " doc_id_n ] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B print_doc
retrieves the documents whose document ID's (in case of a single file corpus) or document names (in case of a multi-file corpus) are given on the command line, and prints them to standard output.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -c \ model_tag
Use the model specified by the model tag
.IR model_tag ; 
this is the name of the model data directory.  For information
on how this directory is located, see the
.B FINDING THE MODEL
section of the
.BR associate (1)
manpage.

.TP 
.BI -m \ model_dir
Use the model stored in 
.I model_dir 
for this search; when this option
is used the model tag given as an argument to the
.B -c 
option must name a subdirectory of 
.IR model_dir .  
If this option is specified the 
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_PATH
environment variable and the
.B -t
option are ignored.

.TP 
.BI -t 
Look for the model data directory in the directory
specified by the
.B INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
environment variable; ignore the
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_PATH
environment variable.  Note that this option will
be ignored if the
.B -m
option is also specified.


.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.SH FILES
The directory containing these files is located using the command-line
options, as described above.


.I model_params.bin
.RS
Parameters describing the model from which we are retrieving
documents.  See
.BR prepare_corpus (1).
.RE

.I corpus_format.bin
.RS
Parameters describing the format of the corpus, some of which
are necessary to retrieve documents.  See
.BR prepare_corpus (1).
.RE


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B INFOMAP_MODEL_PATH
.RS
Path to search for Infomap model directories.  Will be
ignored if 
.B -m
or 
.B -t
is specified.
.RE

.B INFOMAP_WORKING_DIR
.RS
Directory in which to find Infomap model directory, if the
.B -t
command-line option is given.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR associate (1), \ prepare_corpus (1), \ count_wordvec (1), \
\ svdinterface (1), \ encode_wordvec (1), \ count_artvec (1), \
\ write_text_params (1).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Returns 0 to indicate success; nonzero value to indicate error.

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .

.SH CREDITS
The Infomap NLP software was written by Stefan Kaufmann, Hinrich
Schuetze, Dominic Widdows, Beate Dorow, and Scott Cederberg.  The
Infomap algorithm was originally developed by Hinrich Schuetze.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Scott Cederberg.  Please direct
inquiries and bug reports to 
.BR infomap-nlp-users@lists.sourceforge.net .



